SCWG WG4 Telecon Minutes for 2017-09-11

Agenda:
  https://goo.gl/785L49
Topics:
  1 Questions about minutes approval process
  2 Agenda review
  3 Introductions to new people
  4 Status of current action items
  5 Questions related to WG purpose and operations
  6 Practical next steps
  7 Various discussion topics (as time permits)
  8 Action items and suggestions for next week's agenda
Present:
  Fiona Murphy, Nate Jacobs, Katie Chapman, Bruce Caron, Ian Bruno, Ivar
  Martin
Audio:
  https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-Du-YbryiJyZ3lLZDZiMG1xTEU

Chris Chapman: OK. So it should be recording now. And can everyone hear me
  okay?
All: (affirmative)
Chris Chapman: OK. Let's see...I'm trying to find the agenda here.
Nate Jacobs: Bruce put it in the chat.
Chris Chapman: OK. So I just had a few questions about the minutes approval
  process, and David said he's coming in from a flight so he probably won't be
  on the call today, unfortunately, but I just wondered, because these are
  open calls---they're being transcribed---just to get a general idea, I have
  three questions here: does everyone want to be sent the email with the
  transcript before I send it out to the whole working group? Like everyone
  that was on the call for the week? Is that an okay process? or would you
  just like me to send it out and then we can make changes later on?
Bruce Caron: Probably just send it out, and make changes, it's...
Katie Chapman: Yeah
[Fiona?]: That's fine.
Chris Chapman: Okay. So would anyone like me to send it to them first before I
  send it out to the group? In general? No?
Katie Chapman: I think as long as we have the ability to make changes, I think
  it's okay if you send it out to everybody all at once. That's my thought.
Chris Chapman: Ivar did you say something? Is Ivar on the call?
Nate Jacobs: Yeah, I think he is.
Ivar Martin: Yeah I just joined. Sorry I was a bit late. But no I didn't say
  anything. I was listening.
Chris Chapman: Are you okay if I send it out to the group and we can make
  changes after the fact?
Ivar Martin: You mean the transcripts?
Chris Chapman: The transcripts, yeah.
Ivar Martin: Yeah, no worries.
Chris Chapman: Okay. And if this is a problem we can always come back and
  reassess how we do this. 
