SCWG WG4 Telecon Minutes for 2017-08-21

Agenda:
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YrIVIK_hrtfD6M2-oBIqIrUpZ36AaDmdhQ3KmJqkKl0/edit
Topics:
  1. Getting situated
  2. Introductions
  3. Questions relating to WG purpose and operations
  4. What is our direction particularly
Present:
  Chris Chapman, Nate Jacobs, Katie Chapman, Bruce Caron, Ivar Martin, Laura
  ??? (muted)
Audio:
  <>

Topic: Getting situated

Chris Chapman: Okay so lets...
Nate Jacobs: Anonymous Kraken? Sorry, sorry. I'm just looking at the animals on
  the Google Docs. What is a kraken? Is that like an octopus? Do you see them?
Bruce Caron: a mythological beast
Nate Jacobs: Sorry Chris, continue. I didn't mean to interrupt.
Chris Chapman: Oh that's fine. I'm going to actually switch rooms really quick
  that I'm in, because Katie's in the same room as me, and her audio is picking
  up on my mike.
Nate Jacobs: Okay.
Chris Chapman: But we can go ahead.

Topic: Introductions

Chris Chapman: I think we wanted to start with introductions. Who would like to
  go first?
Nate Jacobs: Why don't you go first Chris.
Chris Chapman: I'm Chris Chapman, I've been working on this crazy idea about
  changing research for a few years. This is a lot bigger of a thing than I
  realized when I started into this idea. My wife and I co-founded a startup,
  really little right now, working to change the way research is done.
Nate Jacobs: What's your background. Do you have a CS background, Chris?
Chris Chapman: Well, varied. The first part of undergrad I studied music, piano
  performance. That led into different ways. A lot of this came out of a masters
  project in information systems.
  ... That's it about me. Go ahead Nate.
Nate Jacobs: OK. I'm in kind of a weird place right now. I guess everybody's
  kind of in a weird transition with the scholarly commons because it brings
  into ... So I basically was in my own isolated little world doing
  neuroscience research up until a couple months ago, like six months ago or
  so. Most of my background is in systems neuroscience. I was studying sensory
  physiology and cortical networks and a little bit of ascemic stroke. When I
  was doing my postdoc I kind of realized I wanted basically to switch into
  working on scholarly commons ... so hopefully at some point we'll be in the
  startup world but right now I'm just trying to wrap my head around the
  issues. Like Chris said, it's like some of it seems simple, right, so I think
  everyone has their own little thread that kind of brings them in. They're
  like 'oh yeah, this is simple. I can help work on this or help fix this, and
  then you kind of realize that everything's all connected. It's this big
  monster. There's like business models, all this stuff that Elsevier's doing,
  and there's all these technical challenges that have kept drawing me in. So
  basically I stopped the postdoc and I'm now working at UCLA as technically a
  mobile platform manager. Basically, I was grossly under-qualified for the
  job. So basically I'm just learning ... that environment... which is nice.
  They've kind of taken me under their wing. I've done some programming for
  data science type of stuff, analyzing data. But that's like a whole different
  thing than actually developing software. So basically I'm just getting
  comfortable with that... I'll probably be doing this for a year, and then the
  next step is to start working more actively in developing software solutions
  and random things for scholarly comm. So that's kind of where I'm at.
Chris Chapman: Great. Katie it looks like you're typing something?
Katie Chapman: I, obviously because I'm Chris' wife, I'm the other co-founder. I
  guess my greatest qualification to do anything with any of this is that I'm
  an exception thinker. I think outside the box, I think inside the box, I
  think all around the box. It's just the way my brain works. So I tend to see
  things that often get missed otherwise, which is part of what actually led us
  into doing any of this. I was doing some research of my own, and didn't like
  what I had to work with in terms of technology, and I was like, hey Chris,
  build me something different! Fateful last words. As the scholarly commons
  has come forward, I'm hugely ecstatic about this idea. My biggest job outside
  of work is that I'm a mom of six kids, so that's a busy life.
Nate Jacobs: Are they still young?
Katie Chapman: The youngest is three. They range. Our oldest is fourteen. So
  they're young enough to be a handful and a half, and old enough to get into
  other sorts of handfuls and a half. But I'm excited to have school start.
Nate Jacobs: I'm one of six. I like the big family lifestyle.
Katie Chapman: It's nice. We love it. It's a bit of busy, and summer has been
  especially busy...it just is that way, but it is good. I guess I claim myself
  as a citizen scientist. I would imagine that that will likely come up, but I
  tend to, again, with that whole exception thinker brain, tend to think of
  that a little bit different than most people would. I have some
  off-the-beaten path ideas of what citizen science can be. And I just like to
  research all sorts of random things. Other than scholarly communication, I
  don't have a specific research field that is my main domain. I research
  whatever I need to. I actually studied liberal arts. It's kind of the way my
  brain rolls, I think about it all.
Bruce Caron: It looks like we have someone else on the line...
Ivar Martin: Maybe its me. I just called in...should I introduce myself?
Chris Chapman: Go ahead
Ivar Martin: My name is Ivar Martin. It's kind of an unusual name. I am a
  theoretical physicist. I'm at the Argon National Lab. I used to ... Los
  Alamos for quite a while. So basically my day job is theoretical physics, and
  as a result there are a lot of things that have to do with collaboration,
  publication somehow and so forth. So it's kind of like that the way that I
  live. The reason I joined this community basically is that I heard about
  FORCE11 from very different sources. I decided to see I really curious to see
  so I join about a month ago. I have been following a bit what are the topics
  that people are excited about. The other reason besides my scientific work is
  that a few years ago I started a project which is an online framework for
  collaboration and could be for publication and so on. It's tailored more or
  less to the workflow we used in physics, and I'm trying it out with a bunch
  of my colleagues on various collaborative projects. But it would be
  interesting to see if it resonates with the broader community. The framework
  has some elements of Wikipedia, some elements of stack overflow. For example,
  there is the potential for reputation building. But at this point the main
  focus is to fill the gap between whiteboard discussion and really putting a
  publication together and sending it out to the journals. I think there is
  quite a significant gap at the present time, if we stay within the standard
  paradigm of journal publication. But I could even imagine that it could morph
  into something else. I was rereading the manifesto of FORCE11, and lots if
  not all of the issues mentioned there are, of course, the things that are
  real pains in scientific communication...something that I have been trying to
  think through and address in this project of mine.
Chris Chapman: Great! Thank you, Ivar. What is your online framework called?
Ivar Martin: It's called knowen.org. It's not particularly elaborate at this
  point, but if you go to the landing page you can get a feel for it. You can
  also, without signing up or anything, you can go in and explore.
Chris Chapman: OK. Thank you. Bruce?
Bruce Caron: Oh yeah, hi. My name is Bruce Caron and I'm currently working as
  the community architect for a large group of earth science data researchers
  called Earth Science Information Partners. I'm an anthropologist in my own
  training. I'm interested in how communities form and the differences in
  various types of communities. And I think science is a very particular group,
  and so I think its really important that we support the emergent team science
  efforts and that we are embracing the fact that we are moving from a time of
  scarcity to a time of abundance in terms of data availability and also
  digital object availability. I've been working on open science for a long
  time, and I'm a little bit dismayed by how it just hasn't [grown] like I
  thought it would. Of course it has a whole deadweight of history in terms of
  the academy and academic publishing against it. I think one of the reasons
  open science hasn't grown is that there really isn't yet a vision of where
  that would lead. I'm interesting in the use of commoning as one of the
  potential visions for where open science may go, in the sense of re-commoning
  universities, professional associations, and other ways that scientists work
  together. ESIP is a really good example of this because its a member-run,
  member-led, member-owned community. It's all volunteer. 115 different
  organizations from all the NASA labs, through a bunch of universities,
  through private companies like Lockheed, Raytheon, and folks like that. And
  they're all here to work together and solve the problems of using several
  petabytes of earth science data to solve the earth, climate problem. I blog
  at cyberstructure.org, and there's a lot of ESIP information there. A month
  ago tomorrow, we had a charrette at Ostrom workshop in Indiana University,
  talk about building a pattern repository, a pattern lexicon, I don't know
  whether it's a full language for the academy. I think since then everyone's
  been on vacation, so we have to figure out, gather people together after
  August is through, and start moving ahead with this. And I was involved in
  some of FORCE11 Scholarly Commons workshop efforts over the past year too.
  I think that some of that discussion for me missed the point that its not
  just adding layers of technology to solve the problem, that it's really
  adding a new cultural center for how the academy runs, and how people work
  with each other and acknowledge each others' work. I'm really into commoning,
  I guess.
Chris Chapman: Great. Thank you. David Farmer wanted to join today, but is at a
  workshop this week. So we'll have to hear from him next week. OK, anything
  else before we move forward?

Topic: Questions relating to WG purpose and operations

Katie Chapman: I have one question for how do say it, Ivar?
Ivar Martin: Well I say it ..., but the standard one is Ivar.
Katie Chapman: Ivar, do you have the agenda?
Ivar Martin: The agenda...I think I looked at it, yes. So that was the agenda
  which was sent around a couple days ago.
Nate Jacobs: I pasted it into the chat room. I don't know if you are calling in
  or if you have a computer.
Ivar Martin: I didn't get a chance to download Zoom, so basically I just called
  in.
Nate Jacobs: Ah. OK. OK.
Ivar Martin: But I can follow the agenda on the ... that was sent around, yes.
Katie Chapman: But it would be lovely if you could follow along and make sure
  that what we have put in of what you've shared is accurate. We're going to
  kind of group scribe. I will try to scribe, but I think its easier if we all
  kind of throw in as we're going through so that we can get a better coverage.
Ivar Martin: Yeah. Maybe I will download Zoom and install it so I'm more on the
  same page with the rest of you guys.
Chris Chapman: It would be nice if we this was kind of like a W3C group and we
  could just follow along in IRC, but its not, so...
Nate Jacobs: Could we do something like in Slack? I haven't used IRC...
Chris Chapman: That's a possibility.
Nate Jacobs: I haven't used IRC...but I could be interested in checking it out
  if other people wanted to do it that way also.
Chris Chapman: That is a question I would like to discuss: how do we want to do
  these meetings, how we want to use some of these tools to help with that. I
  know that we could use Slack for meetings. But maybe we should talk about
  Bruce had some ideas about working together with his Slack, and wondered,
  Bruce if you would want to share some of your thoughts about that?
Chris Chapman: ... some good feedback
Bruce Caron: Yeah, that's really nice feedback. Wow. High-quality feedback.
Nate Jacobs: Sounds like a horror movie.
Bruce Caron: We have a Slack team available, the CommonsPatterns Slack team.
  Its a full Slack team, nonprofit, which means that we get all the
  integrations we want basically. Also Slack phone too, so we could do some
  talking with it over Slack. Whether we use Zoom or Slack ... is really the
  problem. 
Bruce Caron: is this a cosmic eclipse?
Nate Jacobs: It's coming! It seems better now.
Chris Chapman: Who's the 505 number?
Ivar Martin: That's me. That's Ivar. Let me try plugging into a headset.
Bruce Caron: ...
Nate Jacobs: Should I mute myself? I wonder if that would help.
Katie Chapman: Hello?
Chris Chapman: Are you here Ivar?
Ivar Martin: Is it good? ... plug in headset so I can and maybe you can hear...
Bruce Caron: Ah the headset. Headsets are good.
Chris Chapman: Yeah.
Bruce Caron: I put the invitation to the CommonsPatterns Slack team on the
  chat:
  (09:15:31	 From Bruce Caron : Invite to Commons Patterns Slack team: https://limitless-island-44565.herokuapp.com/).
  The other thing is that there's going to be a lot of stuff about commoning.
  This group can have as many channels as it wants to do the work it wants to
  do in terms of teamware, and then stay connected with the other efforts that
  are happening as we move forward. I'm just saying its available.
Chris Chapman: OK. So maybe it would be helpful to know what you're planning on
  using it for, to see what kind of overlap we would have.
Bruce Caron: One of the things I see from WG4 is looking at how community,
  culture, and technology can become a layer of opportunity that promotes
  commoning. And to me, in my sort of naive sense, I see that a lot as what
  people are talking when they talk about platform cooperatives. This is not
  something in the academy, but something that how do people use technology
  platforms as a way to self govern sharing in important parts of their lives.
  And that's something that the P2P foundation's looking at, a lot of commons
  folks are looking at this, or commoning across, not geographically local,
  necessarily, but commoning across the planet. So I think this would be an
  important aspect of what the CommonsPatterns group is looking for. We're also
  building patterns. There's a wiki pattern repository that people can
  contribute to. You all get invitations to that too, if you want to build
  design patterns. The rest of the group is also looking not just at
  technology, but at cultural practices in general for commoning. We have
  another platform called IdeaScale. Let me put that in the chat too
  (09:28:36 From Bruce Caron : Ideascale: https://esipfed.ideascale.com/a/ideas/top/gn-filter/byids/campaigns/21152),
  which is an idea farming platform that ESIP has been using to build
  campaigns, but here its more collecting the solutions that people have either
  attempted and liked (like Knowen), or solutions that people are imagining now
  that could be part of this future solution. But you also have to imagine that
  the academy is going to be something different than what it is now. We don't
  want to just be constricted to the ... and the academy that we have now. Let
  me throw that in the chat.
Chris Chapman: OK
Katie Chapman: Will you also put it in the agenda, please, Bruce?
Bruce Caron: Yeah. I'll also put the invitation in the agenda, too.
Katie Chapman: Thank you.
Bruce Caron: We can Slack together or we can Slack apart.
Chris Chapman: What are other people's feelings about this? Nate do you have
  any thoughts?
Nate Jacobs: I think based on the emails I feel like there's still some
  confusion about what direction we want to go. So maybe we could have a few
  calls to figure out what we're going to be doing or focusing on. I like Slack
  a lot, I think if it it's going to be discussion-level stuff, then I think
  just Zoom and Google Docs could probably work. But I think the idea is to try
  to dig in and do some actual work on stuff. So then, yeah, we probably want
  to do Slack or even I know some people are going to be using GitHub just for
  kind of the issues and having conversations there also. Yeah...there's also
  the question like what you're mentioning with the overlap...like we don't
  want to kind of all...but I guess we could just create our own channel in
  that commoning team, so ... yeah, I'm kind of open. We could maybe start out
  there, and if it doesn't seem like a good fit branch out and create our own
  space to communicate.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. I like that. On one hand I don't see the point of
  fragmenting discussions. And kind of sticking together, at least at this
  point, makes a lot of sense to me.
Katie Chapman: I think at least to me it makes sense especially about the
  conversations that are pertinent to both groups that we would converse
  together about those things. I still do have issue with Slack because you
  do have to receive an invite to be in that, and that doesn't feel very
  commoning to me. So that's part of the whole question about what does this
  whole idea mean, what does that mean for how we interact. I don't like Slack
  only for that purpose. I'm just not as familiar with using it yet, as I need
  to be to be comfortable. But that is something that will come as we use it,
  so that is something that will come as we use it, so that I'm not worried
  about at all. But just the ability for people to get involved in the
  conversation and see what we're saying. And I think as long as we're
  proactively looking for ways to either archive or output those conversations
  in a way that others can see them that are not in that Slack conversation,
  then that concern for me gets less, because they can't necessarily join in
  the conversation, but at least they can see the conversation that's going on.
Chris Chapman: Yeah, I think archiving is a good, if we can do that. I know
  there's slackarchive.io. It's a free archive for Slack. Any other thoughts
  about that? It would be nice to make a decision about...
Nate Jacobs: going forward?
Chris Chapman: What I'm hearing is that let's go ahead and team up and see how
  it goes?
Bruce Caron: Looks like we have a new person on the call. Lauren?
Nate Jacobs: Lauren, did you just join?
Ivar Martin: Lauren is on mute.
Nate Jacobs: Oh. Lauren, I think you're muted... Hmm. Okay, maybe the
  connection's dead.
Katie Chapman: I do have one other question about that. What all do we take to
  Slack? What else do we talk about, and where? How much of our conversation do
  we want to be having in Slack? Do we create a new channel and basically move
  all of our conversation there, other than obviously when we're talking, it's
  not on Slack, unless we're doing our calls through Slack. But do we take all
  of our conversation to Slack? Do we still utilize email for the majority of
  it? What are your thoughts?
Nate Jacobs: Slack kind of..if you get everyone really involved and engaged,
  Slack can kind of take over email, right, it can take over that
  functionality, but then like you said, some people...it's annoying to sign up
  or whatever, so then you kinda default back to email. But, yeah, it would
  probably be good to focus on being in one place. I don't know.
Ivar Martin: ... like Basecamp, things like that...fairly standard, fairly
  stable.
Nate Jacobs: I haven't used that before. Basecamp?
Ivar Martin: Basecamp, yeah. It's more like project management. There are a
  variety of different formats of the documents that can exist there and
  attach. I've never used Slack, so maybe my false impression is that it is
  basically like a chat stream, right? So for discussion which may be perfectly
  fine, but if the goal is to produce some sort of document, some packageable
  product, then probably it's not...
Bruce Caron: It's actually...I think it may have started as a chat stream, but
  now it has a lot of integrations that are very useful. I use both Basecamp
  and Slack, and I think Slack's Google Doc integration is far superior.
Nate Jacobs: I haven't used the Google Doc integration. That works pretty well?
Bruce Caron: That works really well. When you integrate a Google Doc into
  Slack, when you search Slack, there's the text of the Google Docs in it too,
  which Basecamp never does, and of course email doesn't either. So its very,
  very helpful to find a Google Doc that someone was talking about six months
  ago. Things like that.
Ivar Martin: So with Google Docs, I guess one issue that I have with Google
  Docs, reason that I don't use it more than I do, maybe that's my ...
  education, is that its not always easy to track changes---to track something
  happening over time.
Katie Chapman: right
Nate Jacobs: Yeah, it doesn't version. I think you can sort of track changes,
  but it's...yeah...
Bruce Caron: It keeps a history, but it's not true versioning.
Nate Jacobs: Yeah.
Ivar Martin: Yes, so if there are multiple people working on a document, then
  it becomes a bit of a pain, because then you run around to figure out what's
  new.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. This is part of the purpose of this group, to find out
  what is needed for scholarship, and then to...I see this having high level
  discussion, but also creating projects that would actually help overcome some
  of these problems and create tools that we need.
Katie Chapman: One other question about Slack: and I'm guessing that Bruce you
  would know, because you've worked with it quite a lot. Some of the rest of
  you have as well. Is it available when you are offline? Can you still see
  what was happening in Slack when you were connected? I realized that that
  tends to be a bigger problem than I have been aware of before. It was my I
  was too stuck in my own box to recognize the need that people have to work
  offline and be able to still utilize the information that they had when they
  were online. Is Slack pretty good to work with so I work on Slack when I am
  connected to the Internet, I walk away from the Internet, and I can continue
  to at least utilize what knowledge was in Slack when I was connected? Does
  that make sense as a question?
Nate Jacobs: You can download - they have a desktop app - and it definitely
  keeps everything in there. And you can type, but actually I'm not sure.
  Bruce, I'm not sure. If you type something in and you're offline, will it
  wait until you're online to post it?
Bruce Caron: Well, uh yeah. But I've never tried that! Since its teamware...
Katie Chapman: OK, I'll have to try it.
Bruce Caron: It's the same thing with Google Docs. Google recently has an
  offline option, so you can edit your own Google Docs while you're offline and
  then thrown them in. I don't know if Slack has that capability. So it does
  make sense to use Slack and email, although there's really good email
  integration into Slack. If you have a listserv, you can set up Slack as a
  member of the listserv and it will pull in everything into any channel you
  want to do that. There will be other solutions, so this comes down to: pick
  one.
Katie Chapman: Right, for now. We just work with what we have. But being able
  to talk through why we like this, why we don't like this, what we see as far
  as is this working toward the future that we want, I think that's the whole
  idea of that phrase which I'm not a fan of, but the dogfood idea. That idea
  of trying it out, seeing is this meeting that need, what about this meets
  then needs we see having, and what is missing. I think that conversation is
  really, really important - that we have it as we're going - that we don't
  just use something and say okay we're using this because we have it, and then
  forget that part of the point of using it is to really think that through as
  we're using it. What is this giving us that will feed into the future that we
  hope for, and what is lacking. And to not miss that opportunity to learn that
  as we use it.

Topic: What is our direction particularly

Nate Jacobs: So should we...so obviously there's always going to be email, its
  always going to be the fallback, should we play around on the CommonsPatterns
  Slack, even if its to spark conversations about productivity tools, and we
  can go from there...I think, we don't have too much time left, I kind of
  wanted to talk a little bit about, I guess we're already talking about this a
  little bit, but for point 2 on the agenda. Going back to the purpose. Do we
  want to focus more on high-level stuff, or do we want to focus more on
  picking certain technologies and platforms and frameworks and going and
  playing with them and then coming back and talking about how that relates to
  commons stuff? I don't really know. The only thing I would add, and maybe
  this is Maryann's influence on me, I feel that a lot of people have said that
  what FORCE11 is really good at is floating above a bunch of existing efforts
  and projects and trying to figure out what the common thread is through them,
  staying at a high level. So that would be one thought, is to do a lot of
  dogfooding and playing around, but sort of an end goal would be more like
  trying to understand what the common thread is through everything, and then
  communicating and packaging what that is to sort of like reinforce things and
  help connect people. But that's just one thought. I don't know if I'm
  necessarily that good at that. I also like the idea of trying to find some
  gaps and working to fill those gaps, but I just wanted to try to throw some
  of those thoughts out there.
Katie Chapman: I like that. Will you do me a favor Nate and write that? I am
  not that fast.
Nate Jacobs: In the agenda?
Katie Chapman: Yeah. Just in the agenda. I stuck your name in the agenda. Down I
  made a new number 3 and put your name. That is my invitation. One thought I
  had as you were talking: I feel we have to have both of those mindsets. I
  think its really easy to pigeonhole ourselves, and say okay we're only
  focusing on the use - these technologies - and let's look at them, let's
  analyze them, let's compare them and pick them apart and dissect them. Or to
  have the opposite pigeonhole and say okay we're going to take this ethereal
  look at everything, and we're not going to really touch on anything specific,
  we're going to keep it really separated. And I think we need to have both
  mindsets going at the same time, not that we can't pigeonhole for a little
  while as we look at - okay we just did that with Slack. We were talking
  specifically about Slack. But if we only talk about Slack and we fail to
  think about what is a scholarly commons at the same time, and for that I'm
  really excited to talk with this group, Bruce, that you've got going, because
  I think understanding the scholarly commons is so key. If we're not trying to
  understand that bigger perspective there, we don't have anything to really
  pick apart Slack with. We don't know what it is that we really want out of
  Slack. We don't know what it is that we need out of Slack. So we don't have
  enough perspective to apply to those smaller things. But if we don't look at
  those smaller things, I don't think we get a feeling for what is it that
  we're using and why are we using it right now, so that we can understand what
  we really want later on. I think we end up with a lot of blinders if we're
  taking either approach by itself.
Ivar Martin: Can I jump in for a sec. Because I just joined this whole
  enterprise, I'm still a complete newbie. So what is the actual goal of the
  group, so what are we trying to achieve?
Chris Chapman: That's what we are talking about.
Nate Jacobs: That's what we are talking about. This group just started.
Katie Chapman: So you're just in time!
Chris Chapman: So the idea that Nate...I like how Nate said it...we're just
  trying to find out how to take this the next step.
Nate Jacobs: yeah, maybe its helpful to take this in small pieces. So maybe the
  first step is to not have a big goal right now, but just to pick a few things
  that we can all go and explore and then come back and talk about. And then
  take it one week at at a time. And then sort of see how it goes. And then
  maybe have a plan by the end of the month, by the end of September or
  something, have a clearer goal about what our initial steps would be. I don't
  know if that's too small steps. Like looking at Slack and maybe checking out
  some of the things that people have talked about already. Like Ivar's thing
  and some of the CommonsPatterns projects. Sorry kind of trailed off there...
Ivar Martin: No, no, no, but seriously, I'm not trying to be facetious. But are
  we trying to define standards, are we trying to propose the framework, or are
  we trying to do something bigger...?
Nate Jacobs: Maybe I can say what I think would be best. But I don't know if
  this would actually ... so we can talk about it, or maybe we can just see how
  it plays out. But I think in my mind when Chris started talking about this
  working group and kind of as the conversations went, for what ever reason in
  my mind went towards playing with these different things and going out and
  maybe as a group checking different things out, maybe building a few things
  on the side. But for me where my mind went is trying to come up with some
  standards or principles that are described or communicated in much more
  operational terms, kind of like what the larger SCWG is doing at F11, but
  sort of my reaction to that, and I experienced this first hand when I tried
  to translate those principles into what that actually means in terms of what
  technologies fit into that or not. And its really difficult because its
  conceptual, not even at the level of user story. It's like just really ...
  principles. So I kind of like this idea of having something to communicate to
  people, like in terms of more specifically what technologies we should be
  moving towards. It can still be high level, like what types of technologies
  and how things should be connected together. Standards for how things should
  be decentralized or stored or archived and things like that. That's sort of
  in my mind is more towards the standards in describing the technology at a
  high level. But again, that's not as fun as building something, so I'd also
  be okay if we wanted to go more towards actually working on a project. But I
  feel that there's a lot already out there, and there's a lot going on. So
  staying at a high level, but using more technical language would be
  interesting to me. But I'm also down to go wherever the group goes. So...does
  that make sense?
Katie Chapman: Yeah, I think that makes sense. I would add to that the idea not
  just the standards, I guess, but the why of the standards, because I feel
  like a lot of the beginning work that was done of the SCWG, some of the why
  was a bigger factor in some of that initial thinking. But I don't feel like
  those whys particularly transmit super well into the principles sometimes. I
  feel like a disconnect I guess with the principles. I read them and I'm like
  okay, I guess I see that, but I feel that I'm reinventing the why, and I'm
  not sure that my why is the same as what was intended in that principle. But
  I feel like we need to understand both the why and the how of doing
  scholarship. And if we have both the why and the how, then we can apply those
  two things technically to whatever we need to. But I think if we skip either
  of those two, we're not going to have what we need in terms of understanding
  or at least connected, coherent understanding to really look at those
  technologies and understand how does this apply, why does this apply, what
  do we need from this, or what do we need that's missing? I think we won't
  necessarily understand what those things are. So I think...
Ivar Martin: Are you saying that basically your strategy as a first step would
  be to survey what are the common practices in different fields as much as we
  can to assemble the data. Because I mean, people are working. They're not
  waiting for us to come up with some new...
Nate Jacobs: Yeah. Yeah.
Ivar Martin: ... and just try to synthesize that. And I think its great that
  there are a few people from very different fields that are engaged, because
  I'm sure there's quite a bit of variation from field to field.
Nate Jacobs: Maybe a first step for some of that surveying, and that's
  something really tangible that we could start actually doing stuff, maybe we
  could build off of Bianca Kramer's list. We can start a whole new document,
  but basically just listing everything that's out there, and just kind of with
  some notes on it, try to get a comprehensive list. This might be tricky, it
  might involve a lot of talking to people. So Ivar you mentioned that you are
  working on your ... so I feel that there are so many people out there that
  are working on their own things, and they're not necessarily that
  discoverable, because they're just getting them started up. So I'm sure it's
  going to be a huge, huge list. But which is also good, because you can find
  what the common denominator is in all of that.
Bruce Caron: It seems that we have almost two diametrically opposite
  suggestions right next to each other. One is that we need to really look hard
  at why do science or the academy in the first place? The other is to look at
  all of these potential solutions, and try to build something from there. I
  see this tension a lot - it was part of the tension that kind of destroyed
  that workshop in San Diego.
Katie Chapman: right
Bruce Caron: But I think it can be a productive tension. But I think there's
  another part of this which is there's a lot of scholarship on what's going on
  with the future of the Internet outside of the academy that probably we'd
  want to include. So it's not just talking to people. There's a fair amount of
  reading that could be productively in this thing. One of the persons I could
  suggest of course is Clay Shirky. Has everyone read Clay Shirky's work on the
  future of the Internet and collaboration?
Nate Jacobs: I haven't
Ivar Martin: So what is the...
Chris Chapman: I've listened to some of his stuff
Bruce Caron: Just for example...
(09:53:29	 From Bruce Caron : https://www.amazon.com/Here-Comes-Everybody-Organizing-Organizations/dp/0143114948)
(09:54:54	 From Bruce Caron : https://www.amazon.com/Cognitive-Surplus-Technology-Consumers-Collaborators/dp/0143119583/ref=pd_sim_14_3?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=0143119583&pd_rd_r=X8M51T3T3T3AM5JB053G&pd_rd_w=GT4un&pd_rd_wg=7Hj3g&psc=1&refRID=X8M51T3T3T3AM5JB053G)
Chris Chapman: But yeah, yeah, I agree with you Bruce. I think there is this
  tension here, and this has been throughout this whole scholarly commons
  project.
Katie Chapman: right
Chris Chapman: and I think it could be productive, and it could actually be
  mutually beneficial. I think we could learn a lot from as many perspectives
  as we can bring to the table. From my perspective, I would like to create
  something that is better than what we have now.
Nate Jacobs: So in terms of actually like building something, Chris?
Chris Chapman: Yeah, that's kind of more where I'm coming from. All of these
  other thoughts are important to bring in to the picture as well, so...
Ivar Martin: So by building something, actually building a tool or a framework,
  something that people would...?
Chris Chapman: Not necessarily a tool. There's a lot of ideas going on about
  the future of Internet. There's even ideas about blockchain which I think are
  in their infancy state. It creates new ways for people to work together. But
  bringing some of these ideas to the Web. There are some really interesting
  possibilities.
Katie Chapman: May I add to that. I feel like I think it is very important that
  we look at what we have, but again, if we just look at what we have and we're
  only looking for common denominators, all we're getting out of that is what
  is common in our current system. And if we're okay with the current system,
  why are we here? What is the purpose of this conversation? I guess...so again
  it comes back to that applying that what is it that we really want? That
  bigger perspective, I like the way you put it Bruce: why even do scholarship?
  What's the point of this? and applying that to that list as we look at that
  and as we talk about it and have not just: okay let's look at it and look for
  common denominators, but let's look at it and say what is it that we actually
  need for scholarship, for the future of scholarship. Not what do we need for
  this current paradigm, what do we need to do this current paradigm better?
  But is there a better paradigm, is there really a scholarly commons that we
  can work toward?
Nate Jacobs: I think the problem was when I was speaking before, basically, the
  current paradigm is you just do all your productivity on your own computer
  basically, and then you publish to journals... What I was talking about
  before was people that are realizing we need a paradigm shift and then there
  is all these sort of activities going towards: oh yeah, I want to do it
  better and do it differently, and paradigm shift, and this stuff, and
  creating new platforms. I was talking about more focusing on the projects
  that are trying to break the mold, but are doing it all independently. And I
  think, I'm going to have to go in a little bit because I have a 9 o'clock,
  the other thing I was sort of was reacting to as we started getting the
  conversation going was, and I don't know, maybe this is particular to
  neuroscience, but I feel like the productivity tools we use for having
  conversations like Slack and email and stuff, to me is a pretty different
  domain than the productivity that goes on towards more heavy duty scholarship
  like running an experiment and keeping track of all of that stuff and then
  actually communicating those results. I don't know, maybe I need to get out
  of that mode of thinking, but I feel like there's sort of this equivalent
  that's set up between oh, what you use Slack for could also potential be the
  exact same as what you use for actually publishing a big paper. To me, I
  don't know why, maybe I need to get updated in my thinking a little bit, but
  those are really different domains right now, and I'm having trouble merging
  them. In terms of the dogfooding, I don't know...
Chris Chapman: I don't think we're saying that, because I agree with you: there
  is a very distinct difference between [productivity tools like Slack or
  email] and publishing scholarship. But I think that exploring what that
  difference is is useful for what we're doing here.
Nate Jacobs: Okay, yeah that's probably correct. Part of it also it's hard to -
  you could just use that potential for those other use cases, we're just not
  right now - see so I might just need to update my thinking a little bit.
Ivar Martin: I guess, also, if I could comment. I don't think the issue is
  really to find a common denominator, but rather to build up a reasonably
  complete taxonomy of approaches that people use and they find successful, at
  least know they do the job. And again, even those I'm pretty sure they may be
  different. Somebody let's say prefers to use DropBox, somebody uses their
  Google Drive. So I guess these are too fairly interchangeable, but saying
  there are some things which are not so much. But the workflow in general will
  include storage, will include some short-term communication, I guess chat
  rooms or things like that, and something which requires better preservation,
  better organization, which is sort of approaching closer to the article
  format, which is bound to be published. Or monographs, because people
  sometimes ... big projects, books within GitHub. So there are some
  examples... So I think there is value in maybe not an extremely detailed
  survey, because I'm sure there's tons and tons of stuff, but at least to
  capture some generic things which are at present in different fields. And we
  can engage more people who actually...well I know at least one person who is
  a physicist by training and ... is also into network science, and so on, so
  he is interested in science of science and tools that people use. So we can
  tap into published resources, we can tap into people who work on related
  things. And just kind of like to map out the landscape. I think that would be
  extremely useful. Because some of the things, that say, Chris was mentioning,
  I think they're really forward looking, like if you think of cryptocurrency,
  like Ethereum is pretty popular in how you can formulate contracts and so on,
  and if you tried to overlay that onto science, I think in principle maybe
  that is how things are going to be working in 100 years from now. But it's
  kind of hard to imagine that there will be a revolutionary jump over the time
  period of 5 years from people doing things as they are today to something
  drastically different. So I think the key is to finding a smooth bridging,
  which probably people are going to find anyway, but if we can help them
  somehow, by doing this extra legwork, I think it will be really cool.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. yeah. I agree with that Ivar. I like the smooth bridging.
  We need that as well.
Ivar Martin: And I guess one other thing... I think there are two different
  aspects. There is the academy, you know the canonical science or
  institutionalized science. And then there is more citizen science, which it
  would be great if it were developing faster and were contributing more to the
  discourse. I'm pretty sure there will be a difference also in the types of
  tools and frameworks that one ... these two communities. Because I think
  citizen science is still pretty nascent. There are a couple of sites that I
  know of. I'm sure there is more activity than I know of, but it is not
  definitely on the scale of the institutionalized science, and maybe that's
  where actually one can make the biggest contribution in defining how people
  could actually contribute to the scientific discourse. I don't know. Things
  like which are on everybody's minds, but which are extremely controversial,
  like climate change. You know, to go beyond polar bears sinking or the
  floating ice. So how do you take that to a more scientific level? How do you
  look at the data? How do actually make people analyze and ... binary: it's
  either warming or its not warming. So these sort of things would have a huge
  impact, and I guess everybody realizes that they would have a huge impact,
  but I don't think many understand how to actually make it happen.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. OK, I think we're out of time. This is a good discussion,
  and should give us a little more to think about as we work towards
  understanding how to move forward. Any other thoughts before we...
Bruce Caron: I just want to second Katie's brilliant observation that is: if we
  are just here to catalog what other people are doing, why are we having this
  conversation? Why is it really important for us to be here, if in some ways
  we're not anticipating, in a systemic way, some sort of improved, or a
  different academy? and why is it different? and how that difference makes
  doing science more productive, more fun, more whatever? I think that's a
  really crucial part of the conversation.
(10:00:43	 From Nate : nice chat everyone i’ve got to go, look forward to talking again next week!)
Ivar Martin: I think the key is that, of course, at least people in the
  sciences, I'm sure you included, realize that things are not great, there are
  a lot of inefficiencies. So there's definitely a lot of space for
  improvement. But I think cataloging things at least makes sense in order to
  understand the language, to understand the mindsets of the people who are out
  there, right, who are doing science, again institutionalized science.
Chris Chapman: Yes. That is important. We have to understand the current system
  if we are going to have any chance of changing it.
Katie Chapman: But not just understand the system as it is, but why it is what
  it is.
Chris Chapman: Yeah. Why it is. right.
Ivar Martin: right
Katie Chapman: otherwise again we're still left with lots and lots and lots of
  blinders on.
Ivar Martin: Yeah. So the thing is that people basically have workarounds. They
  do things because that somehow turned out to be the most efficient way at the
  time they were making the decision, like whether to use A or B. So I think
  the time is right to have some sort of change. But I'm pretty convinced that
  if you come out with something that's completely fabulous which is internally
  consistent, that you can prove mathematically is the best way to do science,
  and you bring it out to people, they'll laugh at you. Because even less
  revolutionary things they would be very resistant in accepting. Just by
  virtue of academia, that people are conservative, they don't take anything on
  trust. And you telling them that this is a better way to do things, most
  likely they will just say 'okay'.
Katie Chapman: Yeah, I think they will. And that's part of why I would love to
  see us, whether it's us collectively, or individuals within this group, or
  other individuals, build things so that they can see that it's actually
  better, and not just read some fabulous research paper that declares it
  better. But they're going to have to see it. They're going to have to
  experience that, I think.
Chris Chapman: And that there's an alternative I think is useful. That they can
  take it or leave it. Right now I think there is no alternative.
Katie Chapman: right
Bruce Caron: Yeah, I think scientists are pretty resource aggressive when they
  see that there's a benefit. But you have to demonstrate that.
Katie Chapman: right
Chris Chapman: yeah. Okay, any other thoughts?
Ivar Martin: So do we have a plan? or...
Chris Chapman: As far as any resolutions that we made, we're going to try out
  using the CommonsPatterns slack...
Katie Chapman: is someone going to create a specific channel for us, or should
  we mostly wander and kind of familiarize ourselves with what they've already
  been doing?
Bruce Caron: Chris, you can start a new channel for the group.
Chris Chapman: Okay. It might be good to start a channel and try out doing the
  next meeting with it, at least. And we can talk about new channels as well.
  It would be good I think to continue thinking about the direction of the
  group, taking these thoughts and...we didn't get to the...there were several
  submissions to FORCE2017 that may relate to how we move forward with this
  group as well. We didn't get to that today, but I'll send an email out once
  they're accessible. And then we can look at those this week.
Bruce Caron: Thanks, Chris.
Chris Chapman: Is there anything else we decided?
Katie Chapman: nope
Bruce Caron: Nope.
Chris Chapman: If not, we'll see you next week, same time.
Katie Chapman: sounds good
Bruce Caron: Alright thanks
Ivar Martin: ...
